Design Notes for the TP-Link Device to SmartThings Cloud Integration.

Contents:
I.	Bulb API notes.
II.	Plug API notes.
III.	HS110 Energy Meter API notes.
IV.	Bulb Device Handler design notes.
V.	Plug Device Handler design notes.
VI.	Energy Meter design notes.

I.	Bulb API Notes.  Bulb API factors affecting programming.
	a.	The value ignore_default=0 allows user to turn on of the
		bulb while setting other values.  This capability is
		implemented in these device handlers.
		1.	Brightness
		2.	Color Temperature
		3.	Color (through color wheel).
	b.	The bulb has a value 'transition_time' that allows fade
		in and fade out.  This is not implemented since it is
		not a function of the Kasa App.
	c.	Circadian Mode.  The setting of mode to Circadian starts
		a subprogram that sets brightness and color temperature
		to match natural light.  Changing brightness, color_temp,
		or color drops the bulb out of circadian mode, as does
		setting mode to normal.  Setting mode to normal sets the
		bulb to the last circadian mode settings.  Finally, 				turning the bulb off while in circadian mode will change 
		the mode to normal.
	d.	Color.  For the LB-130 to be in color, the color_temp
		must be '0'.  Any other value will drop the bulb out of
		color.
	e.	Each 'transition_light_state' command sent to the bulb 
		returns a message automatically with the current bulb
		lighting state.  The message format changes depending on
		the value of on/off.
	f.	Sending the get_sysinfo command (common with the bulb)
		returns a verbose state of the bulb, which includes the
		light states.  As above, this data is different based on
		the value of on/off.
	g.	WiFi communications with the bulbs has had several reports
		of dropping off without apparent cause.

II.	Plug API notes.  The Plug and Switch API factors affecting
	programming.
	a.	On sending an on/off command to the device, the automatic
		return message consists only of the error code ('0' is
		good, '-1' is bad).  The get_sysinfo command is required
		to derive the actual state of the device.

III.	HS110 and Energy Meter API notes.  The Energy Meter function is 
	intended to implement the energy monitor status of the HS110.
	a.	The command 'get_realtime' contains the current power
		level of the HS100 in kilowatts.
	b.	The command 'get_daystat' contains a user-defined calendar
		month of energy consumption in kilowatt-hours.
	c.	The total 'get_daystat' database is 31 days, usually 				spread over two months and including today's data.
	d.	The 'get_daystat' database increments another day based on
		the HS110's time - which is local time for the device if
		properly set.
	e.	The command 'get_time' returns the year, day, month,
		hour, minute, and second for the plugs.

IV.	Bulb Device Handler design notes.
	a.	State-Machine. The DH - applet - device interface uses
		the SmartThing cloud as the State machine.  Counter to
		SmartThing's standard shoot-and-forget, when a command is 
		selected by the user, the state is not updated until a
		response is received from the device.  This is done due 
		to:
		1.	The complexity of the interface.
		2.	The aforementioned problems with the bulbs and WiFi.
		3.	The use of HubActionRequest and Responses which
			(very infrequently) has problems.
		4.	The author's view that the ST Application state 
			should reflect the known state, not the commanded 
			(people are using this for security at times).
		5.	Although not yet implemented, these actual states can
			lead to some automated corrective actions within the
			Device Handler and can also guide the uses with other
			corrective actions.
	b.	HubActionResponse.  There are several based on the 
		expected return data from the sent command.  It is cleaner 
		and requires fewer if statements.
	c.	On-off state has five possible values, on, off, 
		turning_on, turning_off, and comms_error.  These are 
		color-coded for user convenience.
	d.	Brightness is set via a slider with values between 0 and
		100%.  
		1.	Setting the on bulb to 0% DOES NOT turn off the bulb.
			It is the lowest possible value.  
		2.	Brightness must be an integer.  
		3.	Adjusting the brightness on an off bulb will turn the
			bulb on to the selected brightness with other values
			at the last state (the 'dft_on_state').
		4.	Adjusting the brightness when the bulb is in 
			Circadian mode will set the bulb in Normal mode, 
			brightness as selected and color temperature at the 
			last value.
	e.	Color temperature is set via a second slider with with 
		value of 2700 to 6500 for the LB120 and 2500 and 9000 for
		the LB130.
		1.	Adjusting color temperature on an off bulb will turn
			the bulb on to the selected color temperature with
			other values based on 'dft_on_state'.
		2.	Adjusting the color temperature to anything while the
			bulb is set to color will transition out of color to
			the selected color temperature and the last value for
			brightness.
		3.	Adjusting the color temperature when the bulb is in
			Circadian mode will set the bulb in Normal mode,
			color temperature as selected and brightness at the
			last value.
	f.	Color is set via selection of the color wheel the visual
		selection of the color on the next page.  The selected
		values are biased to match the bulb's range of color.
		1.	Adjusting color on an off bulb will turn the bulb on
			to the selected color with other values based on
			'dft_on_state', except color temperature ('0').
		2.	Adjusting the color when the bulb is in Circadian 
			mode will set the bulb in Normal mode,color as 
			selected, brightness at the last value, and color 
			temperature at '0'.
	g.	Refresh is called automatically by the SmartThings cloud
		every 15 minutes.  It updates the operational state of the
		bulb to current.  It can also be triggered by user action.

V.	Plug Device Handler design notes.
	a.	State-Machine. The DH - applet - device interface uses
		the SmartThing cloud as the State machine, as described in
		VI.a.  
	b.	HubActionResponse.  There are several based on the 
		expected return data from the sent command.  It is cleaner 
		and requires fewer if statements.
	c.	On-off state has five possible values, on, off, waiting, 
		and comms_error.  These are color-coded for user 
		convenience.
	d.	Turning on or off the device causes two commands to be 
		sent:
		1.	The on-off command with a response from the device
			being an error message only.
		2.	The 'get_sysinfo" command that returns the 
			operational state data from the device.  This return 
			is parsed to attain the current state of the device.
	e.	Refresh is called automatically by the SmartThings cloud
		every 15 minutes.  It updates the operational state of the
		bulb to current.  It can also be triggered by user action.

VI.	HS110 Energy Meter design notes.  There are six tiles in the
	energy meter implementation, parroting the tiles within the
	TP-Link Kasa application.
	a.	Current Power is the power consumption in watts derived
		from the return to the 'get_realtime' command.
	b.	Todays Usage is the total KWH for the day extracted from 
		the 'get_daystat' command response for the current month.
	c.	7 Day Total and 7 Day Average are derived from the
		'get_daystat' response for the current month and (as
		required) the previous month.  The 7 days start at
		yesterday and go back.
	d.	30 Day Total and 30 Day Average are derived from two 
		months of 'get_daystat' data (a total of 31 records).  The 
		current day is parsed out in deriving the average.
	e.	Special consideration in handling the 'get_daystat' 
		return.
		1.	The data comes in two separate hubActionResponses, so
			totals must be carried through the two calls.
		2.	Year transition is determined if the current month is
			1.  Then the pervious year month 12 is requested.
		3.	Week transition across month is handled by adding the
			total day from the previous month then calculating
			backward, avoiding negative numbers.
	f.	Power on/off and Refresh are enhanced.  When these are
		called, Current Power and Todays Usage are updated.
	g.	Refresh Stats is a manual refresh capability for the Week
		and Month Stats.
	h.	Polling is automatic through SmartThings using Refresh.
	i.	Obtaining the current day data (year, month, day of month)
		is scheduled to occur twice a day.
	j.	The Week and Month stats are scheduled o occur twice a day
		(to be resolved).
	k.	Updated.  From the settings page, depressing 'Done' will
		cause the 'Updated' routine to run.  This routine:
		1.	Schedules the get date and the get week and month
			stats functions.
		2.	Runs once the get date, refresh, and week / month
			stats functions.